# Evaluation of Metabolite-Microbe Correlation Detection Methods
Different correlation detection methods have been specifically designed for the microbiome data analysis considering the compositional data structure and different sequencing depths. Along with the speedy development of omics studies, there is an increasing interest in discovering the biological associations between microbes and host metabolites. This raises the need of finding proper statistical methods that facilitate the correlation analysis across different omics studies. We comprehensively evaluated six different correlation methods, i.e., Pearson correlation, Spearman correlation, Sparse Correlations for Compositional data (SparCC), Correlation inference for Compositional data through Lasso (CCLasso), Mutual Information Coefficient (MIC), and Cosine similarity methods, for the correlations detection between microbes and metabolites. Three simulated and two real-world data sets (from public databases and our lab) were used to examine the performance of each method regarding its specificity, sensitivity, similarity, accuracy, and stability with different sparsity. 


We proposed the following conclusions on method selection based on the preliminary comparisons. 1) Each method has its own strength. The joint usage of more than one method (especially those from different clusters) may achieve better results. 2) The Spearman method outperforms the other methods in most cases. The MIC method may serve as a good supporting method for complicated situations. 3) Zero values will impair the accuracy. The validity and reliability of the results are low when there are more than 40% zero values. 
 

